Game Description

Teamfight Tactics is an alternative turn-based mode in a Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) game, League of Legends by Riot Games.  Teamfight Tactics was created with the game foundation inspired by Dota Auto Chess (another alternative mode from a MOBA game) infused with champions from League of Legends.  A player is given a chance during his planning phase to purchase and/or place champions on a board with 8 rows and 7 columns of hexagons split horizontally for 2 players. 

Teamfight Tactics has 4 general phases that cycle. At the start of a match, begins a carousel phase where 8 players (if later in the game, players remaining) simultaneously compete to choose the first champion from a rotating carousel of champions in the center of the board.  After the first carousel phase, all other carousel phases will have two players simultaneously choose champions at a time starting with the two weakest players. Then begins the planning phase.  
	
Planning phase occurs between every other phase and players are rewarded gold coins which can be spent on purchasing level experience or champion units.  During this phase, every player is simultaneously given an access to the shop which shows a random pool of 5 champions to purchase from a global pool of champions shared by all players.  Note that tier level of the champion (higher tier means stronger base stats) available in the shop are based on player levels. (experience needed for the player to level up increases per level increased) After a player purchases a unit, it is stored in the player's inventory so the player can choose to place the unit on the board.  When the player does not enough units on the board equivalent to the player's level, player's units are automatically placed on the board starting with the first unit in the player's inventory.

Then comes the player vs. environment (PVE) phase where the player's units automatically fight the neutral units on the board without the player having control of the units placed on their side of the board.  When the player kills the neutral unit, there is a random chance for the player to obtain a random number of items or gold coins based on the number of neutral units on the board killed.

Once again, planning phase will occur and players can make changes to their board during this phase to prepare for the PVP phase.  Player vs. player (PVP) phase is a clash between two random players.  All players start out the match with 100 health points where every neutral or enemy player's unit that survives fighting the player's team does damage until the player reaches 0 points.  A player's health point is a universal scoring system that will carry over throughout all phases and a ranking of the players is determined based on the health point remaining throughout the match.  After some combination of PVP and PVE phases, the carousel phase returns and the cycle repeats until only a single player is alive.  


Champions & Set Effects

In Teamfight Tactics, all champions start as tier 1 but are automatically fused into tier 2 and 3 when the player obtains 3 copies of the identical units of the same tier.  Higher tier of units equate to higher base stats of the unit.  All units have 1 or 2 traits that are assigned to the units (static) which can give the entire team or the units with the same traits additional bonus effects that can benefit the team.  The bonus effect of the traits only activate when the specific units are placed on the board which is the reason for team compositions being so influential over a player's outcome of the match.  

Items 

Each champion is allowed up to 3 items to equip.  There are 9 items that can combine with another item to create a total variation of 45 different combined items.  Items automatically combine once they are equipped to a single unit.    



